
it's an honor for me to be here and
thank you all for joining us and thank
you for the invitations uh from the
political parties
um I want to use my time with you to
speak directly and practically to the
extraordinary impasse that we clearly
face as a civilization
we are at 1.2 degrees of global warming
and already the effects are clearly
disastrous devastating planetary changes
are playing out before us in real time
it is critically important that we make
every effort to limit global warming to
as close to 1.5 degrees as possible in
line with the Paris agreement scientists
warn that pushing Beyond this level
towards two degrees is likely to trigger
several major tipping points in the
ecosystem and Beyond this level we will
not be able to adapt
yes over the past decade the EU has
reduced its emissions some politicians
have hailed this as evidence of green
growth but remember when it comes to
climate mitigation what matters is speed
we must reduce emissions fast enough to
stay within Fair shares of the carbon
budget for 1.5 degrees
for high income countries this is
extremely challenging because they have
very high levels of energy use uh and
high energy use makes sufficiently rapid
decarbonization very difficult to
achieve the EU is not on track to meet
its Paris obligations
not even close
this thing rates of mitigation it will
take several hundred years to cut
emissions to zero even if the green deal
brings everyone to the speed of the best
performing countries Denmark and the
Netherlands the EU will still blow its
fair share of the carbon budget many
times over
there's nothing green about this
it's a recipe for disaster much faster
mitigation is needed

and climate is not the only crisis that
we Face we're also overshooting five
other planetary boundaries including
staggering rates of biodiversity loss
driven mainly by excess material use in
the world economy and here again it's
the high income countries which have
disproportionately high levels of
material use which are overwhelmingly
responsible for driving this crisis
what's more the constant hunt for
capitalist growth in the EU and other
high income economies relies on a
constant plunder of goods and resources
and labor from the global South

foreign


output data shows that consumption in
rich countries
about half of all the material
consumption in rich countries is not
appropriated from the global South
through unequal exchange this drains
poorer countries of wealth that could be
used for developments it colonizes their
lands it produces global inequality and
it means the social and ecological costs
of growth are externalized to vulnerable
communities

this Arrangement is wildly destructive
and wildly unjust
the science is very clear rich countries
must substantially reduce their use of
energy and materials so that we can
decarbonize fast enough to stay under
1.5 degrees so that we can reverse other
forms of ecological breakdown and to
release the global south from the grip
of neocolonial extraction but this
brings us to a paradox
Europe has extremely high levels of
energy and material use vastly
overshooting planetary boundaries and
yet nonetheless still fails to meet many
basic human needs 40 million people
cannot access nutritious food and cannot
eat their homes 95 million people face
the risk of poverty tens of millions
more cannot access decent housing why
it's because our economic system is
fundamentally undemocratic
our productive capacities are controlled
by capital and mobilized around what is
profitable to Capital rather than what
is necessary for human well-being and
ecology


so we end up with perverse forms of
production SUVs and fast fashion and
fossil fuels and advertising instead of
public transit nutritious food renewable
energy affordable housing our economic
system fails in both ecological and
social terms so we Face a double
challenge we need to transition to an
economy that meets human needs and
achieves social progress while also
substantially reducing energy and
material use
thank you
some of this can be achieved through
efficiency improvements yes and we
should embrace the power of
technological change we also know that
this is not enough in and of itself
in a growth-oriented economy gains from
efficiency are diminished by the scale
effects of ever increasing production
if we are to overcome this problem and
Achieve our ecological goals we need to
transition to a post-growth economy and
reorganize production around well-being
and ecology
the first step is clear
we must abandon GDP growth as an
objective Simon kuznets the man who
invented the GDP metric himself warned
that it should never be used as a
measure of economic and social progress
it does not distinguish between what is
good and what is harmful and it does not
account for social and ecological costs
we urgently need alternative indicators
but
not walk away from this conference
believing that this is all that needs to
be done if you are speeding toward a
cliff it is not enough to Simply fiddle
with a speedometer in your car you have
to deal with the underlying problem
think about it this way
the dominant assumption in economics
right now
is that every industry must increase
production every year regardless of how
destructive it is and regardless of
whether or not we actually need it
this is an irrational way to run an
economy at the best of times
in the middle of an ecological emergency
it is clearly Madness
instead we need to determine
democratically what kinds of production
we need to be doing and what kinds of
production are clearly destructive and
should be scaled down
this focuses the minds Empirical
research shows that the single most
powerful way to improve well-being and
social outcomes is to expand and
decommodify Universal public services
and bye

and by this I mean Healthcare and
education yes but also housing public
transit Energy Water internet nutritious
food for all
high quality Universal Services should
be a core objective of EU policy let us
mobilize our productive forces to ensure
that everyone can access what is
necessary to live a decent life
in addition we must invest in ambitious
Public Works programs to build renewable
energy improve public transit insulate
homes install efficient appliances
restore ecosystems these are urgents
socially necessary tasks and we cannot
just wait around for Capital to decide
they are worth doing we must mobilize to
do them directly and fast harnessing the
power of Public Finance and Industrial
policy such a program can and should
also include a job guarantee empowering
people to train and participate in the
most important Collective projects of
Our Generation doing dignified
meaningful socially valuable work with
workplace democracy and living wages

think about the power of this approach
it allows us to achieve ecological
objectives but it also abolishes
unemployment something that growth never
does it abolishes Economic Security
which growth never does it ensures good
lives for all regardless of fluctuations
in aggregate output this liberates us
from growth imperatives and stabilizes
the economy
now as we improve and secure the
socially necessary sectors the social
Foundation we also need to scale down
socially less necessary forms of
production fossil fuels are the obvious
one here we need binding targets to wind
this industry down
oh
but we also need to reduce production of
private jets SUVs commercial airlines
Mansions industrial beef fast fashion
advertising Farms cruise ships there are
huge chunks of our economy that are
mostly organized around capital
accumulation and are wasteful and
destructive and totally irrelevant to
human well-being we can also ban the
practice of planned obsolescence and
introduce policy to extend product
lifespans if our products last twice as
long we will need half as many
finally
we urgently need to cut the purchasing
power of the rich using basic sensible
policy tools such as wealth taxes and
maximum income ratios
Recent research



{
   Recent research shows that millionaires
   alone are on track to burn 72 percent of
   the remaining carbon budget for 1.5
   degrees this is an egregious assault on
   humanity and the living world and none
   of us should accept it we need to
   realize that it is irrational and unjust
   for us to continue devoting our energy
   and resources to supporting and
   over-consuming Elites in the middle of a
   climate emergency

   policies like these would dramatically
   reduce energy and material use allowing
   us to achieve rapid decarbonization
   while at the same time improving social
   outcomes and if we find that our society
   requires less labor to produce the
   things that we need we can shorten the
   working week give people more free time
   and share necessary labor more evenly
   thus permanently preventing any
   unemployments unemployment is an
   artificial scarcity and it can be
   abolished is it affordable yes by
   definition yes as Keynes pointed out
   anything we can actually do
   we can afford
   in terms of protective productive
   capacity we can pay for it and when it
   comes to production capacity we have far
   more than enough deploying public
   finances and Industrial policy simply
   shifts this capacity away from wasteful
   production and Elites accumulation to
   achieve democratically ratified social
   and ecological objectives
   some will say the sounds utopian
   but the policies I've mentioned here
   happen to be extremely popular Universal
   Public Services a public job guarantee
   more equality an economy focused on
   well-being and ecology rather than
   growth polls and surveys show strong
   majority support for these ideas and
   official citizens assemblies in several
   European countries have called for
   precisely this kind of transition
   a post-growth deal along these lines can
   be a popular and feasible political
   agenda
   {
      Πρόσφατη έρευνα δείχνει ότι μόνο οι εκατομμυριούχοι είναι στο δρόμο 
      για να καταναλώσουν το 72% του απομένοντος προϋπολογισμού άνθρακα για το 1,5 βαθμούς. 
      Αυτό είναι ένα εκτεταμένο πλήγμα για την ανθρωπότητα και τον φυσικό κόσμο, 
      και κανένας από εμάς δεν πρέπει να το δεχθεί. Πρέπει να συνειδητοποιήσουμε ότι είναι 
      αντιλογικό και αδίκαιο να συνεχίσουμε να αφιερώνουμε την ενέργειά μας και τους πόρους 
      μας για την υποστήριξη και την υπερκατανάλωση των Ελίτ στη μέση μιας κλιματικής έκτακτης ανάγκης.

      Πολιτικές όπως αυτές θα μειώναν δραματικά την ενέργεια και τη χρήση υλικών, 
      επιτρέποντάς μας να επιτύχουμε τη γρήγορη αποθεματοποίηση άνθρακα, ενώ ταυτόχρονα 
      βελτιώνουν τα κοινωνικά αποτελέσματα. Και αν βρούμε ότι η κοινωνία μας απαιτεί 
      λιγότερη εργασία για την παραγωγή των αναγκαίων πραγμάτων, μπορούμε να μειώσουμε 
      τον χρόνο εργασίας, να δώσουμε στους ανθρώπους περισσότερο ελεύθερο χρόνο και να 
      μοιραστούμε την απαραίτητη εργασία πιο ομοιόμορφα, αποτρέποντας έτσι μόνιμα κάθε ανεργία. 
      Η ανεργία είναι μια τεχνητή έλλειψη και μπορεί να καταργηθεί. Είναι οικονομικά εφικτό; 
      Ναι, κατ' ορισμόν, ναι, όπως είχε δείξει ο Keynes, οτιδήποτε μπορούμε πραγματικά να κάνουμε, μπορούμε να το αντέξουμε.

      Όσον αφορά την προστατευτική παραγωγική ικανότητα, μπορούμε να το πληρώσουμε, 
      και όσον αφορά την παραγωγική ικανότητα, έχουμε πολύ περισσότερα από ό,τι χρειαζόμαστε. 
      Η χρηματοδότηση δημόσιων οικονομικών και βιομηχανικής πολιτικής απλά μεταφέρει αυτήν την 
      ικανότητα μακριά από την ασκούμενη παραγωγή και την συσσώρευση των Ελιτ για να επιτύχει 
      δημοκρατικά επικυρωμένους κοινωνικούς και οικολογικούς στόχους.

      Κάποιοι θα πουν ότι ακούγεται ουτοπικό, αλλά οι πολιτικές που ανέφερα εδώ 
      συμπίπτουν με τις προτιμήσεις του κοινού. Οι Παγκόσμιες Δημόσιες Υπηρεσίες, 
      η δημόσια εγγυημένη εργασία, μεγαλύτερη ισότητα, μια οικονομία που επικεντρώνεται 
      στην ευημερία και την οικολογία αντί για την ανάπτυξη - δημοσκοπήσεις 
      και έρευνες δείχνουν ισχυρή υποστήριξη από το κοινό για αυτές τις ιδέες, 
      και επίσημες συνελεύσεις πολιτών σε αρκετές ευρωπαϊκές χώρες έχουν ζητήσει 
      ακριβώς αυτού του είδους τη μετάβαση. Ένα σχέδιο μετά την ανάπτυξη όπως 
      αυτό μπορεί να είναι μια δημοφιλής και εφικτή πολιτική ατζέντα.
   }
}
but Europe is not an island
addressing our Global crises requires
that all countries succeed or none of us
do governments in the global South also
need the freedom to mobilize their own
production around human needs and
ecological objectives rather than
servicing consumption and accumulation
in the global North this requires

this requires reversing IMF structural
adjustment programs canceling unpayable
debts and ending on equal access
none of this will happen on its own it
will require a major political struggle
against those who profit so prodigiously
from the status quo to get there we must
build alliances between
environmentalists and labor movements
and other Progressive political
formations this is not a time for timid
responses tweaking around the edges of
an obviously failing system this is a
time for courage
is there hope yes
but our hope can only ever be as strong
as our struggle so build the struggle
focus on the future we need adjust an
ecological economy for the 21st century
thank you
thank you
